Previously on The Vampire Diaries:
- You took everything from me.
- Let bygones be bygones.
- Resentment gets old.
- Know what never gets old? Revenge.
- No.
- What's the matter? Missing something?
I will kill you and everyone
you've ever met.
Do that and you'll never see
your family again.
The spirits hate Klaus as much as we do,
using their powers to hide the coffins.
- Just won't open. I've tried everything.
- It's closed with a spell.
He's been sired. He feels loyal to Klaus
because Klaus' blood created him.
- I'm not giving Klaus anything.
- He'll kill Jeremy.
Not really my problem.
Jeremy, move!
I have no idea
how you're on your feet...
but I need to run tests.
- I have some place I need to be, doctor...
- Fell.
Your sister thinks we should talk.
You're gonna leave Mystic Falls
and never think about it.
If I thought I wouldn't
have to feel guilty anymore...
- Guilty for what?
- For wanting what I want.
You'll put a hole in that thing.
- Wanna talk about it?
- Nothing to talk about.
- Morning.
- You're late.
We're supposed to meet Bonnie
at the witch house in 10 minutes.
Relax.
You don't want your hair to fall out.
Would you hurry?
We have work to do.
You know, Klaus isn't gonna
spontaneously self-destruct.
- Why are you all chipper?
- No reason.
Be with you in a minute.
So, what's got you all worked up?
- I didn't really sleep last night.
- Yeah, me neither.
Probably something to do with dying.
Heh.
- You okay?
- Yeah, I'm fine.
I'm fine. I think the ring, however,
is running low on batteries.
It's another reason why Jeremy
has to get out of town.
If those rings have a shelf life,
he's not protected. Neither are you.
- Nice. Nice, you're getting stronger.
- I'm just channeling frustration.
I need coffee.
I guess Damon's compulsion worked.
Jeremy was packing
when I left the house.
Going on about
his new school in Denver.
Have you, uh, talked to Damon today?
No. Why?
No reason.
Why won't you open?
Hello?
Is someone there?
You didn't say anything to Elena, right?
No, I said I wouldn't
- I know what you said.
Then why are you asking?
Protecting the location
of Klaus' family...
is my number-one priority right now.
The fewer people who know, the better.
What?
These hybrids are really bringing
the neighborhood down.
Hey. Sorry I'm late.
I, uh, got held up.
It's okay. I just got here too.
Can you pass me the balloons?
Thanks.
What got you running late?
I, uh, was working on some new spells.
You?
Working out with Alaric.
So, uh, I have something
I need to tell you.
- And you're not gonna like it.
- What happened?
Jeremy's gonna be
leaving town for a while.
He'll be staying
with family friends in Denver...
until this Klaus thing blows over.
Jeremy wouldn't just leave you
to deal with Klaus on your own.
I know.
I asked Damon to compel him.
- You what?
- I know, Bonnie...
but it's not safe for him here anymore.
Leaving will give him a better life.
The reason I'm telling you
is because I know...
that you two haven't really
worked out your stuff.
And I thought maybe
you'd wanna say goodbye.
Wasting your time, it won't open.
Did you bury the body?
Yeah.
Any sign of our little hybrid buddies?
Nope, just the dead one.
All right, Klaus has six siblings.
Rebekah's now with Klaus.
There was one dead kid in the old world,
one dead kid in the new world...
which leaves Elijah and two others.
Three sleeping originals, four coffins.
- So who is in the lockbox?
- I have no idea.
Whatever's in here, Bonnie seems
to think will help us kill Klaus.
Sooner she can get this open,
sooner we know if she's right.
You'd think if the spirits of dead witches
can make a coffin invisible...
that they'd figure out
how to open one.
Fine, don't help.
You know none of this
is gonna do us any good...
if Klaus' hybrid friends
find our hiding spot, right'?
- They need to go away.
- Oh. Yeah, that's a great idea, Stefan.
Why don't you ask him to pack a bag,
take a long vacation while you're at it?
How about you keep the peace?
Don't draw attention to things
we're trying to hide.
I'm not gonna play defense
when I have what Klaus wants.
He does what I say or I dump his family
to the bottom of the ocean.
Then he kills you and everyone
you know. Like, I don't know, me.
No, he's bluffing. His family means
more to him than anything else.
- You sure about that?
- I don't know, Damon.
I mean, I guess there's only one way
to find out, right?
- Call his bluff.
- The only way to call someone's bluff...
Stefan, is to be willing to lose
everything if you're wrong.
Denver, huh?
So were you going to say goodbye?
I wasn't sure you cared.
Of course I care.
I was hurt by what happened between
you and Anna, Jeremy.
I don't want you to leave town.
I think this could be a good thing.
At least until this Klaus stuff blows over.
I think I could have a better life there.
That's what Elena said.
It's exactly what she said.
- What do you mean?
- Nothing.
I'm just sorry you have to go.
That's all.
- I can't talk to you.
- I know you're upset...
Upset? You almost got Jeremy killed.
And before you ask me to understand
or to support you...
can you tell me what you're planning
to do about your sire bond to Klaus?
There's nothing I can do, Caroline.
That's the point.
I just wanted you to know...
that I understand
why you can't be with me.
Even though I want to put you first,
before anyone...
I can't.
I'll never be able to.
And I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry.
I just wanted you to know that.
I'm sorry too.
Happy birthday.
Sweet dreams, Rebekah.
- Show her to her room, would you, love?
- Sure.
I'm surprised you're still in town.
I gave you your freedom,
you could've gone anywhere.
I live here, Klaus.
Well, if we're playing this game,
then, uh, I was here first.
You know, I don't like
your hybrid friends.
They're everywhere.
Kind of like fleas.
I want them gone.
Yeah, well, uh, I kind of like
having them around.
Hmm.
You know, I'm hurt.
I hoped that, uh, I'd free you...
and we'd pick up where we left off.
But here you are...
guzzling vervain like the rest of them,
I'm sure.
So much for friendship.
Friends don't strip friends
of their free will.
Okay, granted, yeah,
that was a little extreme.
I get a little moody.
Just ask my siblings.
Speaking of whom,
isn't it time you handed them over?
Klaus...
get your hybrids out of Mystic Falls
or I will remove them myself.
Hmm.
You see, if you continue to threaten me,
I'm gonna be forced to retaliate.
Kill people. And it'll get messy again.
Do whatever you want,
I don't really care.
Or, you know what? Maybe I do.
Yeah. Yeah, maybe I care so much...
that I drop Elijah in the Arctic.
Well, maybe I'd be willing to lose
one brother if it meant killing yours.
Try me. Let's find out.
Is everything okay?
Everything's fine, Mindy.
Stefan was just leaving
after failing to make his point.
Well, one down.
You may want to, uh, send the rest of them
away before it gets messy...
again.
Surprise!
- Happy birthday.
- What are you guys doing here?
Well, you blew off school and missed
our work of birthday art...
so, uh, change into warmer clothes,
we're going to the falls.
- S'mores, campfire.
- Cake.
- Like when we were little.
- Except with tequila.
Uh, thanks, guys, really, um...
I'm just not really feeling
my birthday this year.
I'm sorry. What?
You already claimed your birthday
as everyone's favorite day.
Yeah, and now it's just a reminder
that technically I'm dead.
Look, I didn't even like 17.
The only point to 17 was to get to 18.
It's a filler year.
I am stuck in a filler year.
- You're not stuck, Caroline.
- Yeah, I am.
But it's okay. You know, it's all good.
I will be fine.
But I just need some time
to wallow in it.
Okay. Well, I think I have another idea.
What do you want me to do
with her head?
Just get rid of it, burn it.
I honestly don't care, Daniel.
You called? I'm here.
What happened?
Stefan had two paths in front of him.
He chose the one that made me angry.
I need you to help me do something.
- Can't you just leave me out of it?
- What would be the point in that'?
Seriously, can't you get one of your
other hybrids to do your bidding?
- I lost my friends, my girlfriend...
- Right, your, uh, girlfriend.
Um, about her, I need you to bite her.
- What?
- Don't make me repeat myself.
- A hybrid bite would kill a vampire.
- I know exactly what it'll do.
Uh, Stefan pushed me too far,
so I'm pushing back.
- I'm not biting Caroline.
- Tyler.
I've been supernaturally blessed with
the good fortune of a sire bond to you...
so one could consider this me putting
your undying loyalty to the test.
What the hell is wrong with you?
I'm not hurting Caroline.
All right. All right.
I'm disappointed. But it's your choice,
free will and all that.
I'll find another way to strike at Stefan.
You can go now.
- I thought Stefan saved your life.
- He did.
He's willing to risk it to see
how far he can push Klaus?
- Seems so.
- Well, is his humanity on or off?
I'm thinking there's another option
at play. A bit of a dimmer switch.
- Which is a huge problem.
- Why?
I can't predict how far he's willing to go
until somebody gets killed.
- Suddenly you care who lives or dies?
- I have a small list.
- Talk about humanity dimmer switch.
- Screw you.
Can't a Council meeting
ever just be a Council meeting?
No? Okay.
Oh. There it is.
This is creepy.
Even for us.
No, Caroline was right.
Technically, she's dead.
Sorry. But you don't need a birthday.
You need a funeral.
You need to say goodbye
to your old life...
so that you can move on
with your new one.
Okay.
Here lies Caroline Forbes.
Cheerleader, Miss Mystic Falls...
third grade hopscotch champion.
Friend, daughter, over-achiever.
- Mean girl, sometimes, no offense.
- Ha. None taken.
She was 17 and she had a really
good life. So rest in peace...
so that you can move forward.
It's what you really need.
It's what we all really need.
Amen, or cheers, or whatever.
Bonnie?
Nice. Okay, make a wish.
This is the bridge where Elena and
Jeremy's parents died in a car accident.
Something's up with her. Elena.
Something more than usual.
Do you know what it is?
Well, I'm sure it starts
with a "Stef“ and ends in an "an."
I'm gonna get a drink, write a check,
and then we're out.
Alaric Saltzman, miracle patient.
Dr. Fell.
I'm glad you're alive. Half of me
thought you dropped dead in your sleep.
Yeah, well, I guess I have nine lives. Heh.
Not a bad thing to have
in a town with a vampire problem.
I'm... I'm sorry.
- Are you on the Founder's Council?
- I'm a Fell.
I come from a long line of Founders.
May they rest in peace.
I hate that bridge. My senior prom date
dumped me on this bridge.
Yeah? Did you throw him over it?
No, but I should've. I've been
holding a grudge ever since.
Where'd your, um, friend go? I'm supposed
to hit him up for money for the fundraiser.
You should, he's loaded.
He's in good company. Some British guy
pledged to match every dollar we raise.
What do you mean, British guy?
You know, when I think of a mayor,
I think of an old fuddy-duddy.
But you really have changed
my perception.
- Thank you.
- What color are your eyes?
They're blue.
- Look at what the cat dragged in.
- Nice vest.
- Thank you. Good to see you, Damon.
Uh, Carol and I were discussing if you
would be tonight's other big benefactor.
What do you say?
Klaus has made a very generous pledge.
You know how we're chomping at the bit
to begin the renovation.
Hmm.
Carol, don't take this the wrong way...
but do you realize you've been kissing
the ass of an immortal hybrid...
who ruined your son's life?
Come now, some might say I saved it
what with that nasty full-moon business.
I never had to go through it myself more
than twice, to be honest...
but still, I'm very sympathetic.
Klaus has promised
to protect Tyler, Damon.
- And our town.
- From who?
His hybrids are the ones
this town needs protection from.
I'd have no use for them if your brother
would kindly return my family.
Not gonna happen.
Which is why I've come to an agreement
with the mayor.
You and the Council stay out of my hair,
I'll stay out of yours.
Your town gets protected, my hybrids
get left alone, everybody will be happy.
All you have to do is to get Stefan
to stop decapitating my friends.
Please, Damon, just get your brother
under control...
or the Council will be forced
to take action.
- You've gotta be kidding me.
- Oh, come on, mate.
Give peace a chance.
- Give me.
Ah-ah.
I need it more than you do. Trust me.
- Caroline, what are you doing?
- Huh? Hmm? Nothing.
- Huh?
- Hmm?
Okay, you're a bad sober liar,
you're an even worse drunk liar.
- I might have texted Tyler.
- Caroline.
What? I'm delicate.
Give her a break. You can't control what
everyone does all the time.
- Wow.
- Ouch, Bon.
I'm sorry. I know it's Caroline's birthday,
funeral or whatever...
but I just feel it's really wrong that
you compelled Jeremy to leave town.
I'm doing it to protect him, Bonnie.
I wanna give him a chance
at a halfway normal life.
He should be able to choose
how he wants to live.
You're taking his choices away.
- Bonnie, you can't tell him.
- Why?
You gonna compel me not to?
You know, you guys are ruining
a perfectly good funeral.
I'm sorry.
I'm just gonna go sleep it off
or something.
Happy birthday.
The mayor's looking out for Tyler.
We have to assume
Klaus has her in his pocket.
Oh, please don't tell me
you're gonna drink the Klaus Kool-Aid.
I'm not gonna let him
hold this town hostage.
I'm also not gonna let innocent people
get caught in the crossfire...
of a pissing contest between
a hybrid and a vampire.
Liz, I'm impressed.
- You're all strong and sheriff-y.
- I'm not kidding, Damon.
Get Stefan to stand down from this one
before someone gets hurt.
What are you doing?
You're gonna ruin your career.
Says the guy
who got his job from his dad.
You have any idea
what you're messing with?
- I know what I'm doing.
- Damn it, Meredith...
- Back off, Brian.
- Whoa, hey.
Everything all right here?
- Everything's fine.
- Didn't look fine.
You might wanna get to know her
before you become her white knight.
She's kind of a psycho case.
You're that guy, aren't you?
The one begging
to have his teeth kicked in.
Take it from me, man.
Life's too short.
Just go away, Brian.
Behold, my senior prom date.
You definitely should've
thrown him over the bridge.
Unfortunately,
I have to work with him.
He's on the Council,
a medical examiner.
The guy who signs his name
animal attack.
- I get it.
- Yeah.
Duty calls.
Thanks for the hero moment.
Anytime.
- What are you doing?
No dead hybrids
at the Founder's party.
I told Klaus to get hybrids out,
he didn't listen, I'm saying it louder.
You don't think there's more
where that came from?
If you kill them, Klaus won't make more?
Have you forgotten Elena?
Do you not care if she's
a blood bag the rest of her life'?
Protecting Elena
is your problem how.
I'm not compelled by Klaus to do it.
Don't give me that "no humanity" crap.
You can't just ﬂip your switch.
Your switch is fried,
just like your brain.
You wanna take Klaus? You wanna
beat the villain? You gotta be smarter.
No, to beat the villain...
you have to be the better villain.
Sorry
- I didn't mean to crash the party.
- So don't.
No, it's, uh... It's okay. Hi.
Can I talk to you for a sec?
It's kind of important.
- Are you okay?
- Yeah.
I want her to be happy, you know?
It's what I want for all of you,
in the middle of this...
crazy life you got stuck living.
Is that how you see it?
That we're stuck?
I'd say it's attached itself
to all of you pretty tight, yeah.
But Bonnie's right, you know?
I have no business
messing in Jeremy's head.
I just didn't know what else to do.
He's in danger here.
I can't lose anyone else that I love.
I take it all back.
Everything I said this morning.
Klaus can't control me.
Not when it comes to you.
I won't let him.
Tyler, it's okay.
Maybe we just weren't meant
to be together.
Maybe we just have to
accept that and move on.
I'm not moving on from anything.
I love you.
What?
Ouch. What the hell?
Ow.
What just happened?
- Oh, no.
- Did you...?
- Did you just bite me?
- Oh, my God.
- I'm sorry.
Oh, no. Caroline?
- Oh, my God.
- Caroline, just...
Just get away from me!
Get away from me!
Caroline!
Great. We've been abandoned.
We're going on a search party. I don't
trust that she won't get back with him.
- Caroline!
- Come on, Caroline.
We don't have any more drinks.
And Matt's being haunted
by the Fell ghosts. Woo!
What are you doing, Stefan?
Hello, Damon.
She's a little busy right now.
- You have Elena's phone?
- Making my next move.
Let me ask you something.
What will Klaus do...
- ...if he can't make any more hybrids?
- What?
Stefan, leave her out of this.
What are you doing?
Stefan, let me out of this car.
Do you hear me?
Let me out of the car.
What now?
You just pulled me away...
from a fascinating conversation
about landscaping the town square.
Stefan just grabbed Elena.
- Well, he's getting desperate.
- He's gonna try and use her against you.
- Do what he says. Get rid of your hybrids.
- Or what?
Stefan would never dream
of killing her.
He tried to behead someone
in the middle of a Council party.
He's operating on crazy right now.
Well, crazy or not,
that kind of love never dies.
- He's bluffing.
- Maybe he is. Maybe he isn't.
But if you don't want to believe him,
believe me.
I know my brother better than anyone.
I don't have a clue
how far he'll take this...
so if he says "blink,"
I suggest you blink.
Sheriff Forbes!
What happened?
- Tyler bit her.
- Oh, my God.
Sweetheart. Careful, careful.
Oh, honey.
Caroline, honey, can you hear me?
I'm sorry, Mommy.
She's been hallucinating.
No one's picking up their phone.
It's all right, sweetheart.
So, what's the plan, Stefan?
What's the big move you're making?
I took Klaus' family
to make him suffer.
I won't let him make a new one.
So then what are you gonna do, huh?
Are you gonna lock me in some cave
and keep me hostage?
Maybe I'll just turn you
into a vampire.
Stop the car, Stefan.
Stop the car, Stefan!
Stefan, how nice to hear your voice.
Tell your hybrids to get out of town.
Well, that's not gonna happen
until I get my coffins back.
Okay. Well, I'm gonna drive
your blood source off Wickery Bridge.
I don't believe you, Stefan.
You won't kill her.
What are you doing?
What's going on?
I just fed her my blood.
No more hybrids if she's a vampire.
- You won't do it.
- Really? Try me.
Because your coffins are next to go.
Say goodbye to your family, Klaus.
Stefan, slow down.
Stefan! Stefan, stop it!
Fine. I'll send them away. You win.
Stefan!
Stefan, stop!
Stop the car, Stefan.
Get back in the car.
- Stay away from me.
- Elena, get in the car.
How could you?
My parents died
going over this bridge. I almost died.
You knew that.
You're the one who saved me.
He had to believe I would do it, all right?
Your fear sold it.
- What if he hadn't?
- He did.
- Well, what if he hadn't?
- He did, Elena! He backed down!
He has a weakness. If I know
his weakness, I can destroy him.
After everything?
That's what mattered?
Destroying Klaus?
Destroying Klaus is all I have left.
You had me.
I lost you the minute
I left town with him.
You just haven't let yourself
admit that yet.
Is that what you're doing?
Trying to make me hate you?
I don't really care what you think
about me anymore, Elena.
Tyler came to see me.
Poor boy seemed quite distressed.
He said Caroline had a terrible accident.
You made him do this to her.
He wouldn't do something like this.
I'm here to help, Matt.
My blood will heal her. Please,
ask the sheriff to invite me inside.
I know how this game works.
You want something in return.
Just your support.
Come in.
Are you going to kill me?
On your birthday?
You really think that low of me?
Yes.
That looks bad.
My apologies. You're what's known
as collateral damage.
It's nothing personal.
I love birthdays.
Yeah.
Aren't you, like, a billion or something?
You have to adjust your perception
of time when you become a vampire.
Celebrate the fact that you're no longer
bound by trivial human conventions.
You're free.
No.
I'm dying.
And I could let you. Die.
If that's what you want.
If you really believe your existence
has no meaning.
I thought about it myself...
once or twice, over the centuries...
truth be told.
But I'll let you in on a little secret.
There's a whole world out there
waiting for you.
Great cities and art...
and music.
Genuine beauty.
And you can have all of it.
You can have
a thousand more birthdays.
All you have to do is ask.
I don't want to die.
There you go, sweetheart.
Have at it.
Happy birthday, Caroline.
- Thanks for picking me up.
- Anytime.
You gonna be okay?
I'll survive.
Somehow, I always do.
You know,
Stefan won this round for us, today.
He pushed Klaus to the edge,
and Klaus blinked.
- Well, his method sucked.
- Still. We needed it.
Klaus has been calling all the shots.
Stefan beat him at his own game.
- He was the better villain.
- Don't sound so impressed.
Well, can't help but be a little proud.
Really, tell me.
You gonna be okay?
You can't kiss me again.
I know.
I can't.
It's not right.
It's right. Just not right now.
Good night.
Good night, Damon.
Ah. You're gonna have to
let me go eventually.
Be safe, okay?
Yeah, okay. All right.
Look, Alaric's waiting.
Good.
You haven't left yet.
Hey, what are you doing here?
I came to say goodbye.
You're not gonna jump, are you?
Thanks for coming.
I was just thinking about
what you said.
About us being stuck.
I was buzzed, Elena. I can't be
held responsible for being judgmental.
I do feel stuck, Matt.
I feel like...
I'm holding onto the girl
who was supposed to die here...
with her parents.
The girl that had a normal life...
and didn't fall in love
with vampires.
You're not that girl anymore.
It's okay if you want to let her go.
Is it?
Because I feel like I've...
I've disappointed her a little. Like...
Like I've disappointed them.
My parents.
My two cents...
as a guy who knew that other girl...
you're doing a lot better
than you think.
Here lies Elena Gilbert.
A fun girlfriend...
and an amazing friend.
Thank God. Another day-drinker.
I lost a patient. What's your excuse?
Uh, well, I put a kid on a plane.
- Yours?
- No, it's...
a long story.
Oh.
Then you should probably
buy me a beer.
A hiker called it in.
My guys got here first.
Another hybrid?
That's what I thought at first.
Brian Walters. The medical examiner.
What's up with the stake?
He's not a vampire.
I know. This was a murder.